.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md, before:

---
name: "Bug Report"
about: "Is something not working as expected?"
---

<!--
  Before opening a new issue please:
  
  - Verify you have the latest versions of Jekyll and Minimal Mistakes 
    installed by running `bundle update`.
  - Thoroughly read the theme's documentation at
    https://mmistakes.github.io/minimal-mistakes/docs/quick-start-guide/
  - Search all issues at https://github.com/mmistakes/minimal-mistakes/issues 
    for solutions and to avoid duplication.
  - Ask for help at http://talk.jekyllrb.com/
  
  After exhausting these suggestions use the format below.
-->

## Environment

<!--
  Please include theme version, Jekyll version, public git repository, whether 
  you are hosting with GitHub Pages, and the operating system you tested with.

  Issues without a link to a public repository or ZIP file will likely go ignored.
  Being able to see your actual files is necessary to troubleshoot, as most 
  issues stem from invalid/missing YAML Front Matter, a mis-configured _config.sys 
  file, or problematic site content. 
-->

- Minimal Mistakes version:
- Ruby gem or remote theme version:
- Jekyll version:
- Git repository URL:
- GitHub Pages hosted (if yes provide URL to site):
- Operating system:

## Expected behavior

<!--
  What is it you expected to happen? This should be a description of how the
  functionality you tried to use is supposed to work.
-->

## Steps to reproduce the behavior

<!--
  Describe the steps you took for this problem to exist. Such as: you installed
  the theme, customized _config.yml, added your own posts, and started up a 
  Jekyll server locally.

  If an error occurred on GitHub Pages when pushing, please test a local version
  following these setup instructions: 
  https://help.github.com/articles/setting-up-your-github-pages-site-locally-with-jekyll/

  Then provide a complete log by running `bundle exec jekyll build --trace --verbose` 
  and include this output in the filed issue.

  Screenshots can also be included if they help illustrate a behavior.
-->

## Other

<!--
  NOTE: Please provide a code repository, gist, code snippet, sample files, 
  screenshots, or anything else you think will aid in reproducing the issue.
-->

Commit message:

Use GitHub issue templates (#3133)
https://docs.github.com/en/communities/using-templates-to-encourage-useful-issues-and-pull-requests/configuring-issue-templates-for-your-repository

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md, after:

---
name: "Bug Report"
about: "Is something not working as expected?"
---

<!--
  Before opening a new issue please:
  
  - Verify you have the latest versions of Jekyll and Minimal Mistakes 
    installed by running `bundle update`.
  - Thoroughly read the theme's documentation at
    https://mmistakes.github.io/minimal-mistakes/docs/quick-start-guide/
  - Search all issues at https://github.com/mmistakes/minimal-mistakes/issues 
    for solutions and to avoid duplication.
  - Ask for help at http://talk.jekyllrb.com/
  
  If none of the above solved your problem, you can continue below.
-->

## Environment

<!--
  Please include theme version, Jekyll version, public git repository, whether 
  you are hosting with GitHub Pages, and the operating system you tested with.

  Issues without a link to a public repository or ZIP file will likely go ignored.
  Being able to see your actual files is necessary to troubleshoot, as most 
  issues stem from invalid/missing YAML Front Matter, a mis-configured _config.yml 
  file, or problematic site content. 
-->

- Minimal Mistakes version:
- Ruby gem or remote theme version:
- Jekyll version:
- Git repository URL:
- Hosted on GitHub Pages (if yes provide URL to site):
- Operating system:

## Expected behavior

<!--
  What is it you expected to happen? This should be a description of how the
  functionality you tried to use is supposed to work.
-->

## Steps to reproduce the behavior

<!--
  Describe the steps you took for this problem to come up. Such as: you installed
  the theme, customized _config.yml, added your own posts, and started up a 
  Jekyll server locally.

  If an error occurred on GitHub Pages when pushing, please test a local version
  following these setup instructions: 
  https://help.github.com/articles/setting-up-your-github-pages-site-locally-with-jekyll/

  Then provide a complete log by running `bundle exec jekyll build --trace --verbose` 
  and include this output in the filed issue.

  Screenshots can also be included if they help illustrate a behavior.
-->

## Other

<!--
  NOTE: Please provide a code repository, gist, code snippet, sample files, 
  screenshots, or anything else you think will aid in reproducing the issue.
-->
